{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 JavaScript is a cross-platform, object-oriented scripting language. JavaScript is extremely popular for a variety of reasons. It is a small and lightweight language allowing maximum flexibility for developers to take it in a bunch of different directions. JavaScript lives inside a host environment (a web browser or Node server), it can be connected to the objects of these environments to provide programatic control over them.\
\
Variable Declaration JavaScript variables are containers for storing data values - imagine a cup you fill with coffee, the cup holds the coffee, a variable holds a value. All JavaScript variables must be identified with unique names. These unique names are called identifiers. var x;\
\
Variable Assignment Assignment operators assign values to JavaScript variables - our cup can now have coffee poured in it, giving our variable a value to hold. The = assignment operator assigns a value to a variable. var x = 10;\
\
Data Types Data types are an important concept; to be able to operate on variables you need to know the data type. There are six data types that are JavaScript primitives: Boolean - true or false; null - null aka nothing; Number - 42 or 3.14159; String - \'93Coding Dojo Rocks!\'94; Array - [1, \'91Coding\'92, 2, \'91Dojo\'92]; and Object - \{first_name: \'91Jane\'92, last_name: \'91Doe\'92\}\
\
Conditionals When you write code, you want to perform different actions for different decisions - hitting different code blocks based on values or conditions that have been met. You can use conditional statements in you code to accomplish this. There are the following conditional statements: if a specified condition is true, do this code in our block; else if to specify a new condition to test, if the first condition is false; else we execute this block of code;\
\
Loops There are many different kinds of loops in every programming language, but they all essentially do the same thing: they will repeat an action some number of times. Imagine you have to run a mile, well you run around the track four times and then you stop. That a loop!\
\
\
Functions are an encapsulation of a code block. When we call our function this will run that code block. Think of it as a list of instructions. As an example imagine we are putting together a desk from Ikea, we open up the instruction manual and get started, first we screw the legs to the table top; next we place the table the right way up. Done! We finished our instructions. Sadly there are a ton more tables to do so lets call our function over and over again.\
}